---
url: https://www.nytimes.com/2025/09/06/us/federal-law-enforcement-national-guard-policing.html
title: "Many Cities Say Yes to Federal Police Help, but No to \u2018Occupation\u2019"
publisher: nytimes
usage: top
initial_rank: 1
---
## Article summary
In 2020, President Trump sent federal agents to Kansas City, Missouri, to address a surge in crime, which Mayor Quinton Lucas initially opposed but later endorsed parts of the operation, known as Operation Legend. The operation helped track down felons, recover illegal guns, and charge suspects with federal crimes. Mayor Lucas expressed openness to federal help if it came with a clear strategy, such as keeping guns away from domestic abusers and tracing bullets used in shootings. Many mayors and police chiefs around the country expressed concerns about the wisdom and legality of using the military for domestic law enforcement but welcomed federal assistance in tracking guns, conducting surveillance, and capturing fugitives. In Albuquerque, the National Guard was deployed to assist with gun violence and drug issues, freeing up local officers for investigations and patrols. However, local leaders worry that a surge of federal agents could come without proper planning and conflict with local desires, such as deporting undocumented residents. Operation Legend was met with mixed reactions in other cities, with some mayors opposing it due to concerns about federal agents operating outside local command. Despite the operation's reported successes, some experts question the reliability of the arrest figures. Mayor Brandon Johnson of Chicago signed an executive order resisting Trump's vow to send troops, emphasizing the need for local control but noting existing collaborations with federal agents. Experts argue that more law enforcement is not always better and that the National Guard is not a substitute for local police. Mayor Jerry Dyer of Fresno highlighted the importance of gaining community trust and avoiding tactics that could lead to increased use of force.
