---
url: https://www.npr.org/2025/10/31/nx-s1-5535654/latter-day-saints-are-having-fewer-children-church-officials-are-taking-note
title: Latter-day Saints are having fewer children. Church officials are taking note
publisher: npr
usage: candidate
initial_rank: 2
---
## Article summary
Families in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, historically known for having large families, are now experiencing declining birth rates, a trend mirrored in the U.S. population at large. Church leaders, including President Dallin H. Oaks, have acknowledged this significant decline and emphasized the importance of understanding the purpose of marriage and the value of children for the faith's future. This theological emphasis stems from beliefs in a pre-mortal existence, the need for a physical body, and the commandment to "multiply and replenish the Earth." Church leaders like Bishop Steve Eror express concern over fewer children, impacting community support and religious education. Demographer Stephen Cranney's data shows a drop in Latter-day Saint women with children at home, similar to the general population. Factors contributing to this shift include rising housing costs and expensive childcare, as exemplified by the Allen family's decision to have two children instead of their desired three. Professor Spencer James suggests that while this may not cause an identity crisis, it could prompt a societal reevaluation of how children and families are valued. A perceived lack of community support also plays a role, making potential parents feel the burden of raising children solely on themselves. Families like the Gabbotts cite financial and emotional reasons, such as postpartum depression and sleep difficulties, for choosing smaller families, while also feeling some societal pressure and personal guilt. Despite these challenges, some members, like Anna Gabbott, believe there are alternative ways to fulfill the commandment to "multiply and replenish the Earth" and that cultural pressures are shifting towards individual relationships with God.
