---
url: https://www.npr.org/2025/11/14/g-s1-97864/purdue-pharma-sackler-family-opioid-settlement
title: A judge says he'll approve opioid settlement with Purdue and the Sackler family
publisher: npr
usage: candidate
initial_rank: 4
---
## Article summary
A federal bankruptcy court judge has announced his intention to approve a new settlement deal between OxyContin-maker Purdue Pharma, the Sackler family, and thousands of plaintiffs affected by the opioid crisis. This revised agreement aims to resolve numerous lawsuits and requires the Sackler family to contribute up to $7 billion over 15 years. This deal replaces a previous one that was rejected by the U.S. Supreme Court due to its provision of improper legal protections for family members. The judge indicated he would provide further details in a hearing. This settlement is significant as it is one of the largest in a series of legal actions against companies involved in the opioid epidemic, which has been linked to hundreds of thousands of deaths in the U.S. since 1999. The bankruptcy of Purdue Pharma, which filed for protection six years ago amid trillions of dollars in claims, has been described as one of the most complex in U.S. history. While the previous settlement faced considerable opposition, this new arrangement has garnered broader consensus among government entities and has seen subdued opposition from individuals, with a vast majority of voting personal injury victims supporting it. Unlike prior settlements, this deal allocates approximately $850 million for individuals directly harmed by Purdue's products, with funds intended for distribution next year. The Sackler family will relinquish ownership of Purdue Pharma, which will be renamed Knoa Pharma and dedicate future profits to combating the opioid crisis. Family members will also be barred from involvement in the opioid industry and from seeking naming rights for institutions. Company documents, previously protected by privilege, will be made public.
